# BlazorServerIdentityInterop

## Blazor Server Identity via Interop

Project demonstrating scaffolding MS Identity into a Blazor Server project and converting the scaffolded pages to Blazor/Razor pages

The simplest form of Identity within Blazor Server is Individual User Accounts.
These are generated by Scaffolding Identity. 
But the output are Razor pages (*.cshtml/*.cs) not Blazor Components (*.razor).
The Login and Logout pages use `SignInManager` to perform the actual loggin in and logging out of a user.
However, there are technical limitations to `SignInManager` and `UserManager` that prevent them from *Signing In* a user and therefore are not supported under Blazor.
It is a bit of a Gordian knot to get Identity work for Blazor Server (Webassembly is a different story.)
The *sword* for this knot is to utilize the Razor pages called from Blazor pages.  But there are variations on this approach.
This variation attempts to use Blazor pages for the UI, and Razor class [verify this] for the processing.

There are different ways of communicating between Blazor and Razor pages.  
This project will use JavaScript InterOp.  
This solution comes from Shaun Walker of the Oqtane project *Insert link*
This may be considered a *hack*, but it follows standard architecture of all solutions in this space.
1. Obtain an anti-forgery token from the system and make it available to Blazor components
   1. Blazor HttpContext is set at startup and does not refresh.  Therefore not usable.  This is where the token lives.
   2. Non-Blazor spaces do have access to the AF token and can get the latest one.
2. Build a submission, including the AF token, and send to Login for SignIn.
   1. The Login razor page expects a POST with the AF token attached.  
   2. If a property AF is attached to POST, the middleware will pass on the request to Login
   3. Because Login is not in *Blazor space* (not SignalR), it is HttpContext aware, and can perform the Login.
   4. When returning, Login will attach the Identity token needed by Blazor Authentication.
3. Return the Identity token to AuthenticationStateProvider in *Blazor Space*, which can indicate the Authentication state, and Authorization rights of the user.

## Considerations 
* When doing a POST, security requires dealing with Cross Site Scripting Attacks (XSRF).  
Anti-Forgery tokens are best practice for Asp.Net.

## Create a Blank Blazor Project. 

### Commit to repo and Base 00.00.00

## Scaffold Identity 
* Override all files
* Create new context
* Optional use SqLite
* Create new User class
* Finish
* Compile
  * Fix error in RegisterConfirmation.cshtml.cs
    * Add `using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Identity;`
* Launch application
* No Sign Up / Sign In / Sign Out visibile (SUSISO) 
* 
### Commit to repo Base 00.01.00

